---
description: >-
  Change Management 1-1: The Ultimate Guide to Introducing or Revamping your
  1:1s
---

# 0⃣ 0. Setting Up 1:1s

#### Introducing 1:1s to the team



The manager’s checklist for effective 1-on-1s

* Discuss the importance and benefits of 1-on-1s. This can help them understand the value and dedicate the appropriate amount of focus.
* Allow direct reports to co-create and own the purpose of the meetings. Ask them to consider how both parties could work together to make sure the direct report gets the most value out of the meeting.
* Agree on duration and frequency. We suggest a cadence between weekly and monthly, for 30-60 minutes. The important thing is to maintain a regular frequency.
* Agree on an overall structure that still allows room to deviate if something comes up that they’d like to discuss
* Establish where, when, and how you’ll meet – i.e. Zoom, meeting room, or even going outside of the office. Always ensure that the space allows for privacy and confidential conversations. Be willing to adjust all of the above as you learn what works best.



**Introducing 1:1s to a new team member**

The first one-on-one meeting should occur soon after the onboarding process is complete. We recommend starting with a recurring 30-minute meeting every week; you can always make it longer down the road, if required.



**Introducing a change to our 1:1 process**





### [ ](https://themanagershandbook.com/coaching-and-feedback/running-one-on-ones#setup)

###

### Part 1: Introducing your team to 1:1s

If your team is not running 1:1 currently, or you're looking to change up the 1:1 format; change management is a thing. A thing that can be annoying unless communicated effectively.



**Location of 1:1**

* Remote: Zoom, Gather, Google Hangouts
*



**1:1 Tool**





What do we need to decide?

Location of 1:1

* Zoom, Gather, Google Hangouts, etc..

Decide on a 1:1 tool (It should be able to handle at the bare minimum..)

* Collbaorative Document
* Private Notes
* Ability to take action items
* Ability to pin important docs (i.e. career plans
* **Review status updates ahead of time.** You’ll save time by not rehashing “What’s the latest on X?” And you’ll better orient yourself on what the focus of the one-on-one meeting should be.
* **Revisit notes from the last one-on-one meeting.** You’ll realize there’s an important topic you need to circle back on or an action item you need to complete. These notes can also help inform the questions you want to ask for this upcoming meeting





### 1. **Schedule your meetings**



**How to decide on frequency?**

* Consistency will help you maintain a relationship with your employees and build trust.

**How to decide on length?**

* #### Have a Shared Doc

1. A shared doc is easily accessible pretty much everywhere – across devices, even without a network connection if you choose the “Available offline” option.
2. A shared doc is a great way to capture action items, what’s said, what’s decided, what’s due, etc. to help us remember these important things amid our busy-as-hell lives.
3. A shared doc enables manager preparation – just because your employee is driving the agenda, doesn’t mean you need to be surprised! You could agree that the agenda is developed an hour or two in advance and take time to see what’s coming and prep.
4. It allows you to keep a running archive of 1:1 content that could come in handy down the line for any number of reasons.
5. Building the agenda together can reduce anxiety and increase employee buy-in throughout the process.

*   #### Change the setting here and there.

    Occasionally, go for a walk and have your 1:1. Occasionally, go get coffee. Go sit in the courtyard. Get lunch or breakfast or dinner. Most often, it’s probably easiest and most efficient to grab or schedule a room and get right into it. Every once in awhile, though, offer to change the setting. Think of it as a chance to interact with your team member more as a human being than as just the stodgy old boss.

**Scheduling**

We recommend doing all of your one-on-ones back to back on a single day. This is efficient, requires less context switching, and allows you to spot patterns you might otherwise miss.

The maximum amount of direct reports is seven. More than that, and you’re going to spend all your time in one-on-ones.

**How**

I’ve historically held my 1:1s for 1 hour every week, and had a high bar for canceling or rescheduling. Currently, Elisse – our outstanding Marketing Director – and I have our 1:1 every other week for an hour. The reason for bi-weekly versus weekly is that we work very closely together – literally a couple feet from each other – all day every day, and we just don’t need to carve out that formal time every single week. But, if Elisse wanted the 1:1 to be an hour every week, I would respect that request, and adjust my schedule to accommodate her needs, no questions asked.

1.  ####

    The first step is to schedule a meeting with each of your direct reports. For the sake of consistency, you may find it useful to meet at the same time each week.\
    \
    We recommend putting aside 30 minutes to one hour for each 1:1 meeting. If there aren’t many points to talk about that week and your employee has a lot of work, you could potentially shorten the meeting time. However, it’s better to shorten the meeting than to skip it — try not to cancel or reschedule unless it’s absolutely necessary.\
    \
    Deciding on Frquency?\
    \- \
    \
    I’ve historically held my 1:1s for 1 hour every week, and had a high bar for canceling or rescheduling. Currently, Elisse – our outstanding Marketing Director – and I have our 1:1 every other week for an hour. The reason for bi-weekly versus weekly is that we work very closely together – literally a couple feet from each other – all day every day, and we just don’t need to carve out that formal time every single week. But, if Elisse wanted the 1:1 to be an hour every week, I would respect that request, and adjust my schedule to accommodate her needs, no questions asked.\
    \
    \-> **Keep it consistent**\
    [Routine is key to making 1:1 meetings a powerful tool for establishing a trusting relationship.](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Routine+is+key+to+making+1%3A1+meetings+a+powerful+tool+for+establishing+a+trusting+relationship.+https%3A%2F%2Fwww.small-improvements.com%2F1-on-1-meeting-essentials%2F\&via=smallimprove)\
    1:1 meetings are most useful when they’re held consistently. Be sure to make time for a meeting every week, even if you’re busy or feel like there’s not much to talk about that week. Your employees might have concerns they haven’t told you about yet.\
    \
    Making 1:1 meetings a routine

    Routine is key to making 1:1 meetings a powerful tool for creating alignment and establishing a trusting relationship. But how to fit that routine into your busy schedule? Former Google and Apple executive Kim Scott points out in her book _Radical Candor_: “1:1s should be a natural bottleneck that determines how many direct reports a boss can have.”

    If you as a manager have five or fewer team members, you could aim for weekly one-hour 1:1s. But even if you have 20, there's no excuse not to have 1:1s. Just adjust the frequency and duration to make it work for you.

    Depending on the needs and structure of your organization, biweekly or monthly 1:1s can be just as fine as weekly meetings, but it’s essential to develop a routine. That’s more likely to happen if you block out time in your calendar, keep those meetings sacred, and reschedule only if really necessary.

    Getting into a routine can be hard. But once the manager and their team members see the value of regular 1:1 meetings, they become a natural part of the ongoing feedback and development conversation. And the more often you meet, the fewer surprises there will be at less regular performance check-ins.

At the beginning of each meeting, don’t forget to follow up on the action items you discussed the previous week.
