---
description: Just kidding there's no such thing as perfection. But we can certain try!
---

# 1⃣ 1. Prepping for Perfection

You have 30m together once a week. That's it.



Follow-up is crucial to boosting employee engagement in your one-on-one conversations. After all, if employees share feedback and then never hear about it (or see a change) again, they will be unlikely to trust you with feedback in the future.

* Feedback
* Problems
* Decisions
* Action items
* sharing ideas, working through feedback, and discussing employee goals and growth



Day before

* Agree on a shared agenda beforehand (ideally the day before).
* Consider any achievements that should be recognized or any feedback you might have for your direct report.
* Practice how to phrase your feedback. Avoid rescheduling the meeting at the last minute – your direct report must have a consistent meeting where they get their manager’s attention and focus
* Alert you when employees hit goals



Leading up to a 1:1 you have all the time in



How far in advance should the agenda be ready?

Prep in advance to make the most out of the time

* What is the objective of the 1:1. Cover 3 topics
  * Update (will be added in since we last talked about them)



Reminders:

Reminder 2d in advance, **add to agenda**

Remind 1d in advnace to **review the agenda**



At Reddit, employees share their talking points with their manager prior to the meetings because “it allows the employee to guide the conversation in the way that they want,” as Katelin Holloway, VP of People and Culture at Reddit, highlighted at [a panel discussion](https://www.small-improvements.com/blog/5-ways-to-take-your-one-on-one-meetings-to-next-level/)​​​**Prepare in advance**



What is the general template?

**Start with Care\* Wellness Check**

**Update:**

**Goal Check-ins:**

**Feedback:**





Leading up to the 1:1

1. A 1:1 is coming up, add to the 1:1 agenda in advance
2. Keep track of wins, blockers, etc. to discuss in the 1:1
3. Make sure goals are up to date



Before the 1:1

1. Care out time&#x20;

Report

1.
2. Review the agenda\
   &#x20;

Manager



\--------------

Preparing for a 1:1

Coming prepared to a meeting makes the 1:1 go smoothly. It shows that you’re respecting the other person’s time and ensures that nothing falls through the cracks. Preparation also helps make 1:1s employee-driven. At Reddit, employees share their talking points with their manager prior to the meetings because “it allows the employee to guide the conversation in the way that they want,” as Katelin Holloway, VP of People and Culture at Reddit, highlighted at [a panel discussion](https://www.small-improvements.com/blog/5-ways-to-take-your-one-on-one-meetings-to-next-level/)



**Prepare in advance**

* go into your 1 on 1 with context. Check out their dashboard, understand at a high level what they've been working on. Look for for areas for improvement, pull out suggested talking point or anomalies AND pull out point that are look good and on track!
* Make sure you've completed the items you said you would get to last 1 on 1 and any out standing
* Review their profile and refresh on how they like their 1 on 1/communication
* Review your previous 1 on 1 - any questions?
* What questions do you have?
* Pick your ice breaker - check their profile



1.  #### **Create a meeting agenda**

    Before you arrive at the meeting, create an organized agenda to help you plan your time. The agenda is an essential tool to make sure the meeting stays on-topic and all relevant points are addressed.

    Your agenda should include talking points to discuss during your meeting. You might also want to privately note down some useful questions to ask your employee. For example, you could try asking, “How do you feel when you come into work each day?”, or “Is there anything I can do that would make your work easier or more efficient?”

    Both manager and employee should be involved in creating the agenda. With Leapsome, you can have your employee add their own items directly to the meeting agenda, or note them down privately.

    If you need help creating your agenda, check out our free [1:1 meeting template](https://www.leapsome.com/downloads/one-on-one-meeting-template). It’s filled with best-practice questions and thought-provoking prompts to help you and your employee have a productive meeting.



**Update:**

**Project/Work Update**

* Technical

**Goal Check-ins**

Your report will pre-write an update detailing what has happened since the last one-on-one. Updates should be added as comments to the Update task. Create a commitment with your report to do this every week prior to the one-on-one. Ideally, the update should include “what went well” and “what could improve,” grouped around your report's OKRs.

1. Track progress toward KPIs. Any KPI that’s lagging should be turned into an issue below.
2. Bubble up any pertinent information about how your goals have gone (e.g., What new information did you gather about the customer? The product?).

Here's an sample update from our Growth team:

💡

O1: Sprint toward Q4 revenue goal

Good:

* HubSpot integration launch went well. Achieved 95% of target leads.
* Dynamic Forms Webinar pushed 100 leads
* Homepage A/B test going live today

Bad:

* We have 2-3 more weeks to drive Q4 demand. Feels like we're not on track to hit our goals.
* Moving blog to primary domain is proving to be a PITA
* Shipped some sloppy copy / assets in the sprint

This update will be read in silence at the beginning of the one-on-one (or even better, pre-read) so that everyone is synchronized on the state of the company. Once you get in the habit of pre-written work, you can even read updates prior to the meeting (and comment on them) to save time.

#### [ ](https://themanagershandbook.com/coaching-and-feedback/running-one-on-ones#issues-and-proposed-solutions)[Issues and proposed solutions#](https://themanagershandbook.com/coaching-and-feedback/running-one-on-ones#issues-and-proposed-solutions)

Issues are typically things that are blocking your reports’ work and need your assistance or insight.

Any issues that crop up should be written up in the issue style and created as Asana tasks under the Issues section. Ideally, they also have a proposed solution that you can quickly approve. For example:

💡

**Issue**

Leadership team is not putting expenses in the right category from their corporate credit cards. This is causing lots of extra admin overhead for our accounting team.

**Proposed solution**

Leadership team moves entirely onto [Airbase](https://www.airbase.com/) (should have already received physical cards).

\






Coming prepared to a meeting makes the 1:1 go smoothly. It shows that you’re respecting the other person’s time and ensures that nothing falls through the cracks. Preparation also helps make 1:1s employee-driven. At Reddit, employees share their talking points with their manager prior to the meetings because “it allows the employee to guide the conversation in the way that they want,” as Katelin Holloway, VP of People and Culture at Reddit, highlighted at [a panel discussion](https://www.small-improvements.com/blog/5-ways-to-take-your-one-on-one-meetings-to-next-level/)​​​**Prepare in advance**

* go into your 1 on 1 with context. Check out their dashboard, understand at a high level what they've been working on. Look for for areas for improvement, pull out suggested talking point or anomalies AND pull out point that are look good and on track!
* Make sure you've completed the items you said you would get to last 1 on 1 and any out standing
* Review their profile and refresh on how they like their 1 on 1/communication
* Review your previous 1 on 1 - any questions?
* What questions do you have?
* Pick your ice breaker - check their profile

​

1.  1\.

    #### **Create a meeting agenda** <a href="#create-a-meeting-agenda" id="create-a-meeting-agenda"></a>

    Before you arrive at the meeting, create an organized agenda to help you plan your time. The agenda is an essential tool to make sure the meeting stays on-topic and all relevant points are addressed.Your agenda should include talking points to discuss during your meeting. You might also want to privately note down some useful questions to ask your employee. For example, you could try asking, “How do you feel when you come into work each day?”, or “Is there anything I can do that would make your work easier or more efficient?”Both manager and employee should be involved in creating the agenda. With Leapsome, you can have your employee add their own items directly to the meeting agenda, or note them down privately.If you need help creating your agenda, check out our free [1:1 meeting template](https://www.leapsome.com/downloads/one-on-one-meeting-template). It’s filled with best-practice questions and thought-provoking prompts to help you and your employee have a productive meeting.



Asking Question
