---
description: As you walk (or click) into your 1:1 here's what to do..
---

# 2⃣ 3. Showing up (5m before)

### **Show up**



**Right Before:**

* Be on time
* Get in the right headspace
* Set the tone. Be punctual and warm from the moment you join the meeting. Remind them that this is their time and set the tone to communicate openness and safety.
* Stay present. Remove any distractions: move away from workstations and silence phones or laptops. Make your direct report feel that they’re your priority.
* Ask questions – especially open-ended questions. Stay focused on the direct report, try to avoid shifting the conversation to yourself or others unless truly necessary.
* Take shared notes of the key points and actions that you can refer back to at a later date. Seek clarity (or set out examples) where necessary to ensure understanding.

####

#### Being present matters

Being present in meetings is not just about physically being in the same room, and it’s even possible in a remote environment. When it comes to 1:1s, presence simply means giving the other person your full attention.

Managers and their team members should reduce distractions to a bare minimum. Coming prepared, turning off notifications on your devices, starting on time, listening actively – all these things help you be more present during a meeting.

Ideally, you have your 1:1 face to face – because that’s the richest form of communication. But that’s not always possible, and not being able to meet in person shouldn’t prevent a 1:1 from happening.

If some or all of the employees in your organizations [work remotely](https://www.small-improvements.com/blog/remote-one-on-one-meeting-questions/), it’s important to get as close to a face-to-face conversation as possible. Take Zapier as an example. The 100% distributed team of around 150 always does 1:1s through video chat, as their CFO [Jenny Bloom told us](https://www.small-improvements.com/customers/managing-performance-feedback-for-a-100-remote-team/). Nonverbal cues are an essential part of communication, so meeting via video chat or in person is much better than having a call.

*   **Be on time**

    The 1:1 is really not your time, Ms. Manager… it’s their time. Being late is disrespectful. Constantly prioritizing “something else” – email, other meetings, etc. suggests that this particular 1:1 meeting is not as important to you as these other things. Remember, as a manager, in many ways, you represent the company to the employee. Think about the message that you and the company are sending to someone that their time is not that important to you. How do you think this will affect their engagement? (hint: not well)

    \

* \
  **Come to the meeting prepared and ready to talk**

Shortly before the meeting, both you and your employee should ideally take a few minutes to review the meeting agenda. This will serve as a quick reminder of what’s to come, and will give you some time to think about what needs to be discussed.
