---
description: So. We're starting at each other. Now what?
---

# 4⃣ 4. In the 1:1 (Finally)

**The **~~**Talking**~~** Listening**

1:1s are not a space to micromanage; approach them with curisoity

* **Ask questions rather than make statements.** Help people come to their own conclusions; it's the only way they'll truly become independent.
*   “When the supervisor thinks the subordinate has said all he wants to about a subject, he should ask another question. He should try to keep the flow of thoughts coming by prompting the subordinate with queries until both feel satisfied they have gotten to the bottom of the problem.”

    _- Andy Grove, High Output Management_

[The Coaching Habit](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01BUIBBZI/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?\_encoding=UTF8\&btkr=1) suggest six questions you can ask to help stimulate the conversation:

1. The kick-start question: "What's on your mind?"
2. The AWE question: "And what else?"
3. The focus question: "What's the real challenge here for you?"
4. The foundation question: "And what do YOU want?"
5. The lazy question: "How can I help?"
6. The strategic question: "If you're saying YES to this, what are you saying NO to?"
7. The learning question: "What was most useful for you?"

Relationship Building:

VIEW Framework



* Start by asking how they’re doing, and do an overall work check-in.
* Confirm the agenda is still as planned. Ask for a follow-up on previous meeting actions and learnings. Ask about key successes or highlights from the week.
* Acknowledge any of your direct report’s achievements, or instances where they contributed value.
* Check-in on key areas like their wellbeing, growth and learning, work relationships, productivity, and impact.
* Ask follow-up questions if further clarity or understanding is needed on a particular point (see guide questions below).
* Ask for feedback on your role as manager, using questions like ‘what is working well?’, ‘what is one thing I can do differently?’, or ‘what could I do more / less of?’



### **Make the most our of your 1:1**

**Discuss key areas during the meeting**

#### Write things down

The single most important thing about 1:1 meetings is sitting together on a regular basis. But taking some time to write down what you want to discuss and what the outcome of the meeting was can make your 1:1s even more valuable.



Note-taking is, simply, a way of concisely recording important information so that you can recall it later.

Regardless of how good you think your memory is - you will need to take notes in certain situations to remind yourself what was said.  It is a mistake to think, when going to a meeting or attending a lecture or some other important talk, that you will remember the details of what has been said - you won’t.  You may well remember the overall topic of the discussion, even some very specific details, but you won’t remember everything.

Back in school when we going to call, note taking listening - these were major areas we looked to improve. However, as we move our of school, the importance of these decrease..

**Why take notes?**

* **Keeps you alert**. Notetaking keeps your body active and involved and helps you avoid feelings of drowsiness or distraction.
* **Engages your mind**. Listening carefully and deciding what to include in notes keeps your mind actively involved with what you hear.
* **Emphasizes and organizes information**. As you take notes, you’ll decide on and highlight the key ideas you hear, identifying the structure of a class presentation. You’ll also be able to indicate the supporting points of a presentation, making study and understanding easier after class. Such organized notes also make it easier for you to link classroom learning to textbook readings.
* **Creates a condensed record for future reference**. A set of concise, well-organized notes from each meeting gives you what you need when in the future you'd like to reference them for a decision or forget what was brought up in a previous discussion



Notes: What should you even take notes about?

* Action items
* Decision point
* Risk or concerns
*   Future topicsYou waste time when you’re not up-to-speed. When you walk into a one-on-one meeting not knowing what the person has been working on for the past week, you squander 10–15 minutes to get caught u

    CodeGem gives you the full picture in one-place. Review previous notes, and explore you team member's KPIs, goals, and weekly activity so you can walk into your 1 on 1 and avoid wasting time on the "what".p on old information. That’s 10–15 minutes that could’ve been spent discovering and discussing _new_ information. Before a 1 on 1, manager should..
* Mark decisions
* A common point brought up when we introduce CodeGem's 1 on 1 framework to manager is that they simply don't take notes. They prefer to be engaged in the conversation and make sure their team member know they have their full attention. But note taking is proven to help manager be more effective listener! Taking notes shows you team member you've understood what they're saying

**consider using a note taking system**

*   Verbatim Notes

    Write down everything that is said (or as poassible) as they hear it and in no particular format. Such notes are often hard to decipher and are usually incomplete because an instructor may be speaking more rapidly than students can write. As a result, verbatim notes require attention and reorganization. Verbatim notes are more helpful than no notes at all, but there are more efficient approaches
*   Informal Outline Notes

    Builds on outlining, but with more flexibility and less detail. Instead of including all of the numerals, and letters, informal outlines mean placing notes on the page to indicate links between main points, supporting ideas, and specific examples.

    Create main points and indent supporting points below them. You can indent related supporting points to form an outline format on the page. Later on you can number or highlight points to identify relationships, but the key is to align information so that you establish organization of ideas as you write them down.

    Outline notes require active listening and thoughtful decision to determine and record important points, yet it allows you to record as much supporting detail as you need.

**How to take effective notes**



* Identify the main topic.
  * **Before you start taking any notes be clear about why you are attending the talk or meeting.** What are you hoping to learn or gain from it? Think of your notes as a guide to your learning and development _after_ the event. You notes form part of a working document that you’ll return to and add to later.
* Listen actively and focus clearly on the discussion
* Use abbreviates and codes to increase the speed of your writing.
* Leave space between main ideas and when you miss an idea.
* Record when the other party emphasizes main ideas or details.
* **Think about whether or not a point is noteworthy before you write it down – do not take notes for the sake of taking notes.** Otherwise you’ll end up with lots of irrelevant points, which will distract you from the important things. You probably only really need to make notes on things that are new to you.
* **Do not write down everything that is said, word-for-word, that would be transcribing, which is an altogether different skill.** Concentrate on the key points, remain alert and attentive and listen to what is being said.
* **Write in your own style and use your own words,** you don’t need to worry too much about spelling, grammar, punctuation or neatness as long as you can read your notes later and they make sense to you. Your personal note-writing system will evolve and improve with practice.
* **Try to use short concise points,** single words or phrases or short sentences, use bullet or numbered lists if necessary. If you are using a pen and paper then it is easy to add linking lines to join ideas and concepts.
* Write down in full, key information that can’t be shortened: names, contact details, dates, URL’s, references, book titles, formulas etc.
* **Use underlining, indentation, circle words or phrases, use highlighter pens** – whatever system works for you to emphasis the most important points and add some structure to your notes.
* **Don’t panic if you miss something.**  You can usually ask the speaker to repeat a point or ask a colleague or peer after the event. Note down that you have missed something to remind you to do this.





**Be an effefctive listener**

* **Overcome distractions**. No matter what the distractions may be — noises, worries, or people — you must take responsibility for concentrating on what a meeting provides. No one else can listen for you. Make a commitment to listen even when it is difficult and reduce any distractions for yourself.
* **Focus on central themes**. As you take notes, imagine that you must summarize the information you record to others after the meeting. This will force you to decide on essential information to pass along. Use your extra speed of thought to make sense of what you are hearing. Of course, this kind of thinking requires concentration. If you prepared for you meeting by completing your prep items and reviewing previous class notes, you will be well prepared position to take in and organize new information you hear. Come prepared to learn.
* **Maintain your focus**. When your mind wanders, refocus. Bring your attention back to what you hear. If you feel confused or lose interest, ask a question for clarification or leave a question mark in your private notes. You can discuss the point later. Always keep up with your notetaking so that your record of each meeting will be complete.
* **Judge the message, not the messenger**—Not all team members are excellent communicators, but the information that they are sharing is still valuable. Focus on what you are hearing, not how it is being communicated. Determine to learn from every meeting



The meeting should be focused on your direct report’s areas of concern, so let them lead the discussion.

Not sure what to talk about? Here are some areas you could focus on:\
\
\
💡 Ever wondered how to make your 1:1 meetings more effective? Check out our [free 1:1 meeting template](https://www.leapsome.com/downloads/one-on-one-meeting-template) — it’s jam-packed with value, including best-practice meeting questions and useful prompts. 😉

\
There’s always a chance that unexpected subjects will come up during your discussion. Don’t worry if you don’t stick precisely to the meeting agenda, although you should try your best to keep the meeting focused.

1:1 meetings shouldn’t be used for just sharing status updates — try to save your valuable meeting time for topics that truly require in-depth discussion. This might mean solving a thorny problem, talking about sensitive interpersonal issues within the team, or giving your employee the opportunity to share struggles, ask for help, or request extra time.

We recommend taking notes during your meeting, so you can keep track of what was discussed. You can do this within Leapsome, and you can automatically carry over notes to the next meeting if you’d like to.**'**



### **Taking Action Items**

Accountability build trust, and is a 2 way street.&#x20;

During 1:1s both you and your report&#x20;

When people commit to doing something, it's very important that you hold them accountable to that. Ensure that any commitment is written down in Asana with an owner and a due date to remove all disambiguation. We call these [Impeccable agreements](https://themanagershandbook.com/working-as-a-team/impeccable-agreements) .

You are your team's accountability partner. Make it clear that broken commitments are not acceptable.

Since they are now committed to keeping all of their agreements, it's very important for them to be careful about the things they say “yes” to. If they agree to too many things, they will stretch themselves in a way that will result in broken agreements.



