---
description: You're all done! Just kidding. You're "all-most" done :D
---

# 5⃣ 5. After the 1:1

* Recap the meeting and close with agreed-upon actions for each person to follow-up on.
* Reflect on how the meeting went, and capture any valuable insights to apply in the next 1-on-1.

**Next Steps**

Once you’ve finished your meeting, summarizing the most important outcomes and sharing them with the other person helps eliminate misunderstandings. It also makes it easier to pick up the ball in the next 1:1 meeting. As a manager or employee, you can also just take private notes to keep track of how the 1:1s went and to capture key takeaways for future reference.

The rule of thumb for taking notes is: do whatever works best for you to get into a habit of having regular 1:1s. Having these conversations and not writing anything down is still better than not doing them at all or regularly.

* Action items
* Mark meeting as reviewed
*   Review and edit your notes to fill in any missing details

    **As soon as possible, after the event, you should review and, where necessary, rework your notes.**

    Fill in any gaps, adding content and further research to your notes.  If your notes are handwritten you may want to type them into a computer. The more you interact with your notes the more you will remember and ultimately learn.
* Summarize your notes with marginal phrases and identify potential test questions.
* Evaluate how you did in the disuccsion - what could you of done better? Share feedback about the other party and/or the meeting in gene
* Review your notes with 24 hours and before the next class.
* Use your notes to write summaries and other guides for active learning.
* Share recap
* Whether it’s feedback you delivered that you want to revisit in a few weeks → Gems/Note/Action Item
* A question your colleague asked that you didn’t have a great answer for
  * Create a note. Tag both people. Add to meetings to edit

**Finally, if you’ve followed the above steps and had a productive, rich one-on-one, you’ve probably got some action items to follow up on. , , or an idea one of you had for how to make the next sprint go more smoothly, do you what you need to in order to remember it and follow up!You may find it helpful to type up meeting notes as soon as you get back to your desk.  You can even share these notes with your colleague if you think that may be resourceful for them. .Feel free to check back midweek with a quick conversation or email if there’s anything that feels as if it needs more immediate attention. When the next one-on-one rolls around, part of “have a plan” should consist of following up on these action items.**

**I hope this has been a helpful overview of some actionable ways you can get the most out of your one-on-ones. Having productive 1:1 facetime with your colleagues is so valuable and can really transform your working relationships if you put in the effort.**

####

#### Start now, and iterate later

Or how Sheryl Sandberg would put it, “Done is better than perfect.” The key to good 1:1 meetings is doing them. Don’t worry if you don’t nail it straight away. There are many things you will learn along the way that are specific to your company and the individual humans involved.

We encourage 1:1 participants to regularly share their thoughts with each other on how valuable they find the current meetings and what could be improved. Nothing is set in stone, and feedback is your most powerful tool for making great 1:1s happen.



**Send a summary with action items and next steps after the meeting**\
Once the meeting is over, make sure your direct report leaves with a set of goals and action items for the week. They should now have a clear idea of your expectations, and how any problems they brought up during the meeting will be addressed. In addition to sharing action items, you’ll also want to make sure both parties have access to the meeting notes.
