---
description: Running a 1:1 is far from trivial. That WHY we built CodeGem.
---

# 6⃣ 6. Make Step 1->5 Easy

Is this a shamelss plug? Yes

CodeGem is built specifically to help engineering leaders run better 1:1 with their team. We know you're busy, and we designed CodeGem to make 1:1s the highlight of your week!



You waste time when you’re not up-to-speed. When you walk into a one-on-one meeting not knowing what the person has been working on for the past week, you squander 10–15 minutes to get caught u





CodeGem give's both the manager & the engineer the full-context they need to identify growth opportunities and recognize strengths

CodeGem pulls the data you need into your 1 on 1 along with features like collaborative agendas, private notes, action item tracking, and even suggests conversation topics.

With CodeGem's 1 on 1 you can...

*   **Avoid asking the "what" questions**

    Easily add analytics & insight from your dashboards as conversation items for your one on ones
*   **Make sure you cover the points industry leaders recommend**

    Select from one of our 10+ templates to help you save time when preparing meetings
*   **Collaborate in a document, optimized for 1 on 1 conversations**

    Google docs are great, but they're simply not made for 1 on 1s. CodeGem Is.

    * A collaborate document so you and your direct reports can build your agenda and take notes together
    * Take private notes
    * Create action items

CodeGem gives you the full picture in one-place. Review previous notes, and explore you team member's KPIs, goals, and weekly activity so you can walk into your 1 on 1 and avoid wasting time on the "what".p on old information. That’s 10–15 minutes that could’ve been spent discovering and discussing _new_ information. Before a 1 on 1, manager should..





* **Review status updates ahead of time.** You’ll save time by not rehashing “What’s the latest on X?” And you’ll better orient yourself on what the focus of the one-on-one meeting should be.
* **Revisit notes from the last one-on-one meeting.** You’ll realize there’s an important topic you need to circle back on or an action item you need to complete. These notes can also help inform the questions you want to ask for this upcoming meeting





*   **Quickly understand context & leverage data**

    CodeGem give's both the manager & the engineer the full-context they need to identify growth opportunities and recognize strengths
*   **Prep agendas and take notes collaboratively**

    A collaborate document so you and your direct reports can build your agenda and take notes together
*   **Optimized for engineering 1:1s**

    CodeGem pulls the data you need into your 1 on 1 along with features like collaborative agendas, private notes, action item tracking, and even suggests conversation topics.
*   **Track action items across your workflow**

    Managing all the to-dos across your many meetings and projects can be overwhelming

    With CodeGem, you can track action items across your meetings, add tasks in the action items section, and centralize all action items from different meetings in one personal to-do list.
* **Power your conversations with CodeGem’s suggested talking points & templates**



1. Integrate CodeGem with your favorites apps (GitHub, Linear)

* Get visual graphs to quickly understand the health of your workflow
* Support your team where they need it most
* In just a few clicks integrate with your Github. Not only do we capture real-time update, but we'll also automatically pull historic data



